---
layout: post
title: "Hunger"
categories: food
---
The other night I spent two plus hours making [Butternut Squash Gnocchi][1], and [Zucchini Bread][2] and although the gnocchi came out a bit rubbery and the zucchini bread a bit lackluster I am still happy with the efforts.  Why you may ask?  Because I know I fed a hunger.

I fed the hunger in my and my girlfriend's stomachs for food, for calories, to allow them to continue to do the work of propelling us through life.  I fed the hunger of doing something for someone I love.  Most of all, I fed the hunger of creating something complicated and amazing out of such simple components as vegetables and flour.

I have been reading a lot of [MFK Fisher][3] as of late, and have been recognizing a kindred spirit.  She speaks a lot about hunger in her writing.  Not hunger in the normal way we think of it - in regards to a physiological need for calories, but in a more philosophical.  For Fisher, hunger is a general term for the needs we have as human beings.  I think she puts it best though when she states:

> I am more modest now, but I still think that one of the pleasantest of all emotions is to know that I, I with my brain and my hands, have nourished my beloved few, that I have concocted a stew or a story, a rarity or a plain dish, to sustain them truly against the hungers of the world.

I feel something similar when I have cooked a meal and shared it with friends or loved ones - there are few things I like better.  Good food, good wine, and good conversation - these are what I think of when I consider a life well lived.  If I can make those I love feel loved through food, drink, and words I feel as though I have done something of merit.

I am not an amazingly good cook, but I put my heart into it, and I like to think that means just a little more than another meal at the table...

[1]: http://guiltykitchen.com/?p=503
[2]: http://allrecipes.com/Recipe/Zucchini-Bread-IV/Detail.aspx
[3]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M._F._K._Fisher