---
layout: post
title: "Iced Tea"
tags:
  - food
  - drinks
  - memories
---
I have an overly active sweet-tooth.  I love chocolate, I love maple syrup, and I love whipped cream.  All of this of course flies in the face of the fact that I love plain old unsweetened iced tea.

I am not sure what it is that draws me to this bitter drink.  When I drink tea hot (anywhere other than an Asian restaurant) I douse it with sugar and (if I have Lactaid with me) milk.  When it is ice cold though, my preference is for unsweetened black tea.

My assumption about this is that it has to do with the memories of my youth, as I think much of our tastes do.  When I was young, I would regularly go to my grandmother's house (my mother's mother) for one reason or another.  The majority of my mother's family lived in close proximity to their mother, and family gatherings were a standard.  Seasonal sets of birthdays, holidays, etc would bring some subset of the aunts, uncles, and cousins out of the woodwork and into my grandmother's living room.

Although the attendance would change (and thin over time, as people would drive wedges between themselves) the one constant throughout was the bottles of iced tea in the fridge.  It wasn't anything fancy - just your standard blue-collar instant iced tea.  My grandmother would make quarts and quarts of it and keep the fridge stocked with it, and if it looked like it was going to run out, someone would fill up an empty bottle with a "fresh" batch.

My mother was raised "powdered milk poor" (as my friend Mike would say) and as such rarely had anything to drink other than water and iced tea.  The mentality of living within minimal means continued even after all the kids had grown up and moved out (Though other kids moved in from time to time - a number of my cousins having a need to be outside of their own parents' homes would rent the back room from my grandmother. (I never made use of this, though would eventually spend a number of nights sleeping there once my parents had moved in with my grandmother to take care of her.))

My grandmother was a good and dependable woman, but she was also a hard woman.  Things were "her way or the highway," and you could rarely pull the wool over her eyes.  That being said though she was a constant in my youth, just like the iced tea that without question would always be in her fridge door.